The background image is the Meteosat infrared image (date and time (UTC) of this image are shown in the upper-left corner of the image).

Note :
When RDT is produced with lightning data as optional input, a thick black line shows the limits of the domain corresponding to a spatial accuracy better than 6 km for 50% of the flashes detected by the French Météorage/Météo-France lightning detection network (map of spatial accuracy of the French Météorage/Météo-France lightning detection network in 2002). Only lightning flashes detected inside this domain are considered.

The different characteristics of the convective objects are displayed through a multilevel visualisation:

1. The first level corresponds to the superposition of graphical attributes onto the corresponding infrared image.

    These graphical attributes are:

    a. A coloured contour which defines cloud system edges.
    The colour of this contour is related to the life-cycle stage of the system. More precisely :

        yellow contour when the system is detected for the first time ("triggering" of the system),
        red     contour when the system is growing,
        violet  contour  when the system is mature,
        blue   contour when the system is decreasing,


    The thickness of this contour is related to the temperature tendency of systems: the greater the cooling, the thicker the contour.
    The style of the contour (dashed/plain) indicates which method has been applied to diagnose the convective nature of the system :

        a plain contour means that the convective nature of the cloud systems was diagnosed using lightning data (at least one lightning impact was detected below the cloud system)
        a dashed contour means that the convective nature of the cloud systems was diagnosed from satellite features only.


    b. A green contour shows the edges of the system in the previous satellite image.

    c. A yellow line shows the trajectory of the system (all previous locations of the centre of gravity of the system in past images).

    d. A black arrow shows the expected move of the system for the next half hour.



2. The second level allows to access to numerical values of some characteristics of the cloud system..

    These values are displayed into an interactive window. Its visualisation is activated by moving the mouse inside the contour of the corresponding cloud system.

3. The third level allows to visualise time series of past evolution of the following characteristics of the cloud system :

    a. Number of positive and negative lightning impacts registered below the convective system,
    b. Area of the system at different brightness temperature thresholds
    c. Thresholding and minimum brightness temperature of the system.
    The visualisation of these series is also interactive and is activated by simple-click inside the contour of the corresponding cloud system.